[MUSIC]
Welcome to ReplicaSet.
After watching this video,
you will be able define a ReplicaSet,
explain how a ReplicaSet works, and
list the benefits of using a ReplicaSet.
If an application is
deployed on a single pod,
the pod will be unable to
perform certain actions.
If requests increase,
manifold or outages occur.
Single pod deployments cannot accommodate
growing demands of the application and
load balancing across pods.
Handle outages by eliminating
a single point of failure.
Minimize downtime and
service interruptions by providing high
availability through redundant pods.
Or automatically restart deployments
if something goes wrong.
We can work around these
limitations with a ReplicaSet.
A ReplicaSet ensures the right number
of pods are always up and running.
It always tries to match the actual state
of the replicas to the desired state.
A ReplicaSet adds or deletes pods for
scaling and redundancy,
which helps maintain availability.
It replaces failing pods or
deletes additional pods to
maintain the desired state.
And it supersedes a ReplicaController and
should be used instead.
A ReplicaSet is created for when you
create a deployment in your cluster.
Deployments manage ReplicaSets,
send pods declarative updates, and
have many other useful features.
That's why a ReplicaSet is
best managed by a deployment.
Kubernetes is designed to keep
object types independent.
That is why the ReplicaSet
does not own any of the pods.
Instead, it uses pod labels to decide
which pods to acquire when bringing
a deployment to the desired state.
Let's look at a deployment template here.
The template metadata
defines the labels and
spec of potential pod candidates to add or
delete.
A ReplicaSet is automatically created for
you when you create a deployment.
To check this, create a deployment and
then use a get ReplicaSet command to
verify that the ReplicaSet
is generated for you.
By default, the ReplicaSet only
replicates to a single pod.
Additionally, if you describe the pod,
you will see the pod's details and
that it is controlled
by the same ReplicaSet.
To create a ReplicaSet from scratch,
apply a YAML file with the kind
attribute set to ReplicaSet as shown.
If you define the number of replicas as 1,
you get one pod.
This is similar to creating a default
without specifying the number
of replicas in your YAML file.
Lets step through creating
a ReplicaSet from scratch.
First, use the create ReplicaSet command.
The output shows a ReplicaSet was created.
Confirm it was created by using the get
pods command and observe the status
as running and then use the get rs
command, rs is short for ReplicaSet.
And the output shows the name and
other details of the newly
created replica set and its pod.
But remember, creating a deployment that
includes a ReplicaSet is recommended
over creating a standalone ReplicaSet.
Before you scale a deployment, you must
ensure you have a deployment and a pod.
To do this, Create a deployment
using the create command.
The output will confirm
a deployment was created.
The deployment creates
a pod by default and
you can confirm this
with the getpods command.
The output shows the pod name and
other details.
You can check the deployment details
with the get deploy command.
The output shows the deployment
is named hello-kubernetes.
Now, once the deployment and pod are in
place, use the scale command to scale
the deployment and
set the desired number of replicas.
Here we set the number
of replicas to three and
the output confirms
the deployment is scaled.
If you use the getpods command
you will see three pods running.
The ReplicaSet created two new pods,
one ending in 5mflw and
the other ending in hbt7v.
Lets observe how the ReplicaSet maintains
the desired state when the pod is deleted.
First, use the get pods command.
Our three pods appear in
the output as expected.
Now, use the delete pod command to
delete the pod ending in 5mflw.
The pod ending in 5mflw is deleted.
And notice that the desired state
does not match the actual state and
that the deleted pod is replaced
by a new pod automatically.
Now use the get pods command again.
The output shows the ReplicaSet
immediately created a new
pod ending in 6lw4r.
To get the total number
of pods back to three,
the ReplicaSet maintains
the desired state.
Let's now observe how the ReplicaSet
maintains desired state when a pod is
created.
The getpods command shows
our three pods from before.
Use the create pod command to
create a pod ending in mx9rp.
Then use the get pods command again and
the output now shows four pods.
Desired state does not match actual state.
Since the ReplicaSet always strives
to match the actual state to
the desired state.
The new pod ending in mx9rp is marked for
deletion and removed automatically.
The get pods command now shows the total
number of pods restored to three.
And once again the ReplicaSet
maintains the desired state.
In this video,
you learned that a ReplicaSet provides
high availability through redundancy.
A ReplicaSet enables scaling
by creating or deleting pods.
You can create a ReplicaSet using
the CLI or the YAML descriptor.
A ReplicaSet always tries to match
the actual state to the desired state.
And a best practice is to use a deployment
instead of a ReplicaSet directly.
[SOUND]